This we do.
Let's look at a third and garbage collection.
So what the assets so sessions are basically introduced in one point forward point four is when it's
first introduced.
So I'm defining a method so I am defending I can compute simple interest method.
And for me principle should never be less than zero so it should always be greater than zero.
So that's basically the condition I would want to check before I exude the logic of this method.
So what do I do.
I put an insert in here.
So that's an answer to what happens is the principle is greater than zero.
Then an error is thrown to an assertion error is thrown.
So the important thing to remember is this is not an exception.
This is an error.
So whichever method is calling this will not be able to handle the exception at all.
It's basically an error which is thrown out.
So the thing is Israel's actions are used to check for basic constrain.
So it's basically a way of saying this is a constraint.
I expect everybody who is calling this method to adhere to.
So that's where asserts that's what efforts are used for.
And so are not to be used for validating input data.
Not if I want if it's possible that somebody would call this method with a different value.
And I'm in with the wrong while you and I would want to in those kind of situations develop have proper
validation error.
Then I should not use answered.
So so it's not to validate input data in those kind of situations.
Illegal argument exception would be a better option not an answer.
So if principle is greater than zero then through any legal argument the exception is are only when
you are sure that nobody will be quarreling with principle zero and you would want to check for that
before you write your logic as we say in here in a public method only use assertions to check for cases
which are never supposed to happen so that you not need to.
You don't use assertions for validation.
That's more garbage collection if you are familiar with languages like C++ and.
When you create an object you are responsible for deallocating the memory to it.
So you create an object called animal you are responsible to make sure that the object of the memory
that you allocated to that object is deallocated when the program completes execution.
But in Java We don't need to do that in Java.
The memory management happens automatically and this process is called garbage collection.
So basically how does garbage collection work.
Let's look at this example small example in he has a calendar calendar is it called this.
So we are building a new object.
So what it does is it gives some memory to this object puts it on the heap or Sambit and has a reference
variable created called calendar.
But once you are out of this method once this method completes execution then this particular object
which is created will not have any reference to it because this particular method is completed execution
and this reference variable is no longer valid.
So you would have something in memory without having a reference to it.
So that's both kind of things are automatically garbage collected in Java.
And this process of doing this is called garbage collection.
The name of garbage collection is to have as much of a heap available for the program as possible.
So basically as soon as a particular memory location does not have any references what does JVM do.
It removes the object from memory or from the heap.
The important question about garbage collection is when does it run actually.
I mean what are we see here transept the whims and fancies of the JVM.
That's not really as bad as that.
You can control it a little bit.
I mean you can define a few patterns with those on the JVM which kind of controls how and when a garbage
collection is run.
Typically the JVM runs garbage collection whenever it thinks it needs more memory.
So whenever there is an available memory on the heap is lost.
So when there is very less memory it runs garbage collection so it gets more memory.
Also the other situation is when the fuse free so let's say if there is nothing happening on applications
use free.
So let's make the you do something so you can put in a garbage collection at that particular point in
time.
You can actually Kickoff something called System GC from a program to request JVM to start the garbage
collection but it's just a request.
It's not an order and ideally it's not recommended for you to keep the system that GC method from a
program you'd rather convert you grab the configure garbage collection to parameters to the JVM that
Dan.
So even though there's a medical system that you see which is a request of the JVM I have never seen
it being used in 15 years of my programming.
And I wouldn't want to be in a program where it's being used as well that basically this is similar.
GC In the short video this cause a little bit about that and a little bit about garbage collection.